Whale Activity and Market Impact in 2024

Abstract:

The observed sample of whales’ transactions in 2024 states a $10 million withdrawal from the Uniswap which can be very meaningful for the market. This is not a one-off phenomenon but is derived from a broader perspective of the market and more pertinently, within decentralized finance (DeFi) environment. The analysis of big transactions and whales’ behaviour provide the insights into the market sentiment impact of such events, as well as the market liquidity and volatility which are also of a great interest. The following is an extensive literature review, which connects to relevant theoretical concepts and research findings to launch the account of the incident.


Whale Activity and Market impact:
The term, whale activity refers to the big trades conducted by entities that have a lot of capital. In particular, these operations can affect market conditions to a large extent, especially in slightly more decentralized markets such as those for DeFi. Kyle (1985) in his article ‘Continuous Auction and Insider Trading has laid the foundation on how large trades impact on market prices. As per the Kyle model, it is possible that market becomes efficient in adopting the information that is provided in large trades especially if such trades are done by informed traders or insiders that might lead to a change of price. Specifically the study showed how critical market liquidity is regarding the extent to which prices change following trades.

Uniswap is a decentralized finance application which acts as an AMM, an automated market maker. Its liquidity methodology is not the same as that of what would be seen in normal order book markets. There are constant function market makers (CFMMs), of which Uniswap is an example, in which fees are collected from providers of liquidity based on the volume of that they provide. Since these platforms rely on an algorithm for setting the prices that change according to the ratio of the pairs in the liquidity pool, considering the fact that there are large trades, they can alter the asset values in a relatively short time. In the study "The Decentralized Financial Crisis: In “Slippage, Volatility, and Attacks: Quantifying the Risk of Big Flows on DeFi,” Gudgeon et al. (2020) looked at the extent of vulnerability that exists within decentralized exchanges such as Uniswap due to liquidity attacks occasioned by large trades or withdrawals.

Market Liquidity and Price Volatility::

Basically, the response of markets to large trades especially for decentralized exchanges (DEXs) depends on liquidity. The markets with lower liquidity are far more susceptible to sharp price fluctuations that accompany large trades, and this is perfectly illustrated by Kyle’s (1985) study of the relationship between liquidity and price effect. Liquidity reduction by a whale is the act through which the overall magnitude of liquidity that is to be offered in a pool reduces and this is a prominent problem in small DeFi platforms that are built with the help of users and not organizations, such as the Uniswap.

In the study of liquidity provision in Uniswap V3 by Neuder et al. (2022), the authors explain that what set V3 aside from other previous incarnations of Uniswap was that the liquidity was which was provided was skewed towards specific price ranges. The large amount of liquidity often places whales in a position of authority when it comes to regulating the flow of assets, which, in turn, affects interval prices’ volatility since it is highly dependent on their activity – negative in terms of withdrawal. The drawback of pressuring liquidity providers to rebalance or withdraw their liquidity when facing drastic price fluctuation is to decrease liquidity even more and increase the effective power of a whale further.

Price Dynamics in Decentralized Exchanges (DEXs):Price Dynamics in Decentralized Exchanges (DEXs):

Since, AMMs are applied in DEXs, their pricing model is not similar to that which is normally observed in financial markets. The functioning of the AMMs like uniswap which adjusts the price based on the ratio of assets in pools was explained by Gudgeon et al. (2020). In a similar manner, when a whale executes a rather large withdrawal or makes a trade, the price changes instantly in proportion to the updated asset balance in the pool. Again, if a trader gets an actual price much lower than what he expected, then he will experience price slippage especially for big trades.

Conclusion:
Some understanding of the possible consequences of the last $10 million withdrawal may be obtained from the analysis of whales’ activity and its impact on the markets, including DeFi platforms such as Uniswap. large trades may lead to large price movements, changes in liquidity and shifts in market sentiment as mentioned in theories by Kyle (1985) and the studies conducted by Gudgeon et al. (2020) among other papers. As has been previously discussed, while a lack of liquidity and the focus of market participants may indeed lead to a bull surge, historical analogs have not been very conclusive as to whether the lack of liquidity would lead to a positive or negative response. However the exact result will depend on several other factors within the market.

References
Kyle, A. S. (1985). ’Partial information asymptotically justifies the proportional representation of shares and the continuous auction method; Insider trading. ‘ Econometrica 53(6), 1315-1335.
L. Gudgeon, D. Perez, D. Harz, B. Livshits & A. Gervais 2020. "The Decentralized Financial Crisis: Title: Defiance or Defend? Abstract: We highlight some emerging trends in DeFi and attack it! “ Preprint, 2 February 2020. 08099.
Neuder, M., Moroz, D., Fan, Z., Marmolejo-Cossio, F. & Parkes, D., "Strategic Liquidity Provision in Uniswap V3. " arXiv preprint arXiv:In: 2106. 12033.
He, Z., & Krishnamurthy, A. Subcategory-level work breakdown structure (WBS) for improving construction project management June 2013 "Intermediary Asset Pricing